Akka gRPC 0.8.0 (#686)
akka/akka.io: blog/_posts/2020-03-12-akka-grpc-0.8.0-released.md

---
layout: post
title: Akka gRPC 0.8.0 Released
author: Arnout Engelen
short: Announcing Akka gRPC 0.8.0
category: news
tags: [releases]
---

Dear hakkers,

> We're happy to announce version 0.8.0 of Akka gRPC! This release introduces a

Reviewer: Please add some short intro to what Akka gRPC is.

Major improvements include:

* Basic support for [gRPC Server Reflection](https://github.com/grpc/grpc/blob/master/doc/server-reflection.md) [#380](https://github.com/akka/akka-grpc/issues/380), which allows interactive/dynamic clients to discover services and methods, based on the implementation in [Cloudstate](https://github.com/cloudstateio/cloudstate/blob/master/proxy/core/src/main/scala/io/cloudstate/proxy/Reflection.scala)
* Support for [gRPC-Web](https://github.com/grpc/grpc/blob/master/doc/PROTOCOL-WEB.md) [#695](https://github.com/akka/akka-grpc/issues/695), making gRPC usable for JavaScript clients in the browser, contributed by [@timw](https://github.com/timw)
* Support for custom trailing response headers [#838](https://github.com/akka/akka-grpc/pull/838), which for example can be used to implement [rich error responses](https://grpc.io/docs/guides/error/#richer-error-model), contributed by [@drmontgomery](https://github.com/drmontgomery)
* Improved client-side load balancing over multiple backend instances discovered through [Akka Discovery](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/current/discovery/) [#811](https://github.com/akka/akka-grpc/pull/811)

> For an overview of all changes see the [release overview](https://github.com/akka/akka-grpc/releases/tag/v0.7.4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an overview of all changes see the [release overview](https://github.com/akka/akka-grpc/releases/tag/v0.8.0).
```

## Credits

This release includes commits from 9 committers – thank you all very much!

```
commits  added  removed
     44   3136      984 Arnout Engelen
      1   1180      353 Tim Whittington
      1    842      214 David Montgomery
      1     53       43 tayvs
      8    156       45 Enno
      2     16        8 Renato Cavalcanti
      2      3       10 Ignasi Marimon-Clos
      1     13        5 lukasito
      1      2        0 Parth
```

> Thanks to [Lightbend](https://www.lightbend.com/) for their continued sponsorship of the Akka core team's efforts. Lightbend [offers commercial support](https://www.lightbend.com/lightbend-platform-subscription) for Akka.

Reviewer: The Akka core team is employed by [Lightbend](https://www.lightbend.com). If you're looking [to take your Akka systems to the next level](https://www.lightbend.com/lightbend-platform-subscription), let's [set up a time](https://lightbend.com/contact) to discuss our enterprise-grade expert support, self-paced education courses, and technology enhancements that help you manage, monitor and secure your Akka systems - from development to production.
